---
title: Security practices
subtitle: Answers to common questions about ReportStream security and data
    practices.
breadcrumbs:
  - label: Resources
    href: /resources
  - label: Security practices
---
### Does ReportStream have security audits and attestations?

As a project of the U.S. federal government, ReportStream
complies with the Federal Information System Modernization
Act (FISMA) of 2014.

FISMA sets standards and requires federal agencies to
implement information security plans to protect sensitive
data. FISMA and the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) set the FISMA compliance guidelines. More
specifically, NIST guidelines:

- Set minimum requirements for information security plans
and procedures.

- Recommend security systems, software, etc. that agencies
must implement and approve.

- Standardize the risk assessment process and set varying
standards of information security based on agency risk
assessments.

As part of the FISMA process, ReportStream has full
authority to operate (ATO). This authority was granted by
CDC's Chief Information Officer/Authorizing Official after
an extensive review process documenting over 500 security
controls, reviews by multiple teams, and penetration testing
by third parties.

Learn more about the FISMA process and the NIST guidance:
[NIST Risk Management Framework (CSRC)](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management)

---

### Is ReportStream FedRAMP approved? 

Federal information systems like ReportStream are not in the
scope of the Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program (FedRAMP), which is for vendors that sell cloud
products or services to the Federal government. However, as
mentioned above, ReportStream follows the FISMA law and both
FISMA and FedRAMP share the same NIST security guidelines
and standards.

---
    
### How is ReportStream hosted? 

ReportStream is hosted in a secured FedRAMP accredited
environment.

---


### Is ReportStream data encrypted in transit? 

All data is encrypted in transit. ReportStream also uses
data-in-transit encryption for connections to send test
results to states.

---


### Is ReportStream data encrypted at rest?  

All data is encrypted when stored using facilities of the
secured FedRAMP-accredited environment.

---


### Who has access to ReportStream data? 

ReportStream filters and routes data to state and county
Public Health Agencies through their electronic reporting
interfaces. In addition, Public Health Agencies may
designate users who can download ReportStream data from a
ReportStream website. There are a number of security
controls placed on these user accounts including
multi-factor authentication and automatic disablement due to
in-activity.

Some members of the PRIME ReportStream team have
administrative access to ReportStream data for the purposes
of reliably operating the ReportStream service. All
ReportStream team members who have this administrative
access go through Federal government background checks.

---


### Does ReportStream keep an audit trail? 

For business and security purposes, ReportStream keeps many
different logs of activity. In particular, ReportStream
keeps a line-level audit trail of all test results that is
sent to ReportStream and all the receivers of data from
ReportStream. The ReportStream audit trail is kept for
multiple years.

---


### How long is data stored? 

ReportStream is a data conduit , not a store of record.
However, to operate reliably, it is necessary to temporarily
retain data in ReportStream. The current retention period
for test results and other personal identifiable information
(PII) and protected health information (PHI) is 30 days.

---


### Does ReportStream have terms of service? 

All organizations that send and receive test results through
ReportStream to public health agencies are governed under
these ["/terms-of-service"](terms of service).

<p className="margin-top-8">
    [Back to top](#top)
</p>