# Changelog vs Release Notes

The [release notes](./release-notes.md) are a high-level, customer-facing summary of changes to ReportStream over time.
The changelog is a detailed list of changes associated with individual releases which
[GitHub tracks here](https://github.com/CDCgov/prime-reportstream/releases).

The categories used to separate the changes in each release are generated by a Github Action called
[Release Changelog Builder](https://github.com/mikepenz/release-changelog-builder-action).
It will inspect the PRs associated with a particular release and group the PRs based on their labels, and uses
[a json configuration](/.github/changelog_config.json) to associate a label with a broader category. These
category-to-label associations are:

**Category: Backend**

Includes PRs focused on the API, routing logic, message schemas, or persistence code.

* api
* backend
* index|indexes
* router
* schema
* sender


**Category: Fixes**

PRs fixing problems in existing code.

* bug
* correct
* fix|fixed|fixes|fixing


**Category: Frontend**

PRs focused on the user interface of ReportStream.

* frontend
* javascript


**Category: Pipelines**

PRs impacting how we build or deploy code.

* automated
* checks
* deployment
* DevOps
* pipeline
* scan
* workflow


**Category: Release Notes**

PRs with customer-facing release notes.

* customer|customer-facing
* release|release-notes


**Category: Tech Debt**

PRs focused on cleaning up code.

* tech-debt


**Category: Tests**

PRs focused on testing existing code or new scenarios.

* test|tests
